Aleksandra Micek
##Measuring Robot for Interior Designers

#Summary
	One of the steps interior designers have to take in their design practice is to collect the dimensions of the walls in the existing space. Accurate measuring is crucial for the successful design and lack of mistakes in the further process. From my experience the process of collecting dimensions takes a lot of time and is not liked by interior designers because in those places there is a lot of dust, sometimes they forget about some dimensions so visiting this place later again is necessary. Collected dimensions are drawn on the piece of paper and later put manually into autocad drawing.
	The goal for my project is to build a robot that will help interior designers in collecting dimensions of walls in the empty room and automatically put those into vector drawing. I will use Arduino hardware with Arduino and Processing software to collect the data and turn it into the drawing by exploring the mathematical theories. The goal for the first version is to make the static robot that will collect the dimensions from the middle of the room and turn it into processing drawing. When the first version will be successful I’m planning to build the mobile robot that will explore more complex rooms and move to another room after finishing the previous one. The third version is to add water and electricity inputs detector with windows and doors detection.

#Component Parts
	I will use Arduino Uno, Maxbotix ultrasonic sensor, Stepper motor, Processing software, breadboard and jumper wires. All components will be bought. For doing the mobile version that will explore room after the room also the wheels with servo motor will be needed . For the third version I will need also sensors for the detection of windows, doors, electricity and water outputs. 


#Challenges
	The most hard parts will be building the robot out of all components and writing the code in Arduino software that will collect data from all sensors and turn them into valuable numbers. The most challenging part in the Processing code will be turning the physical dimensions from the distance sensor into 2d floor plan drawing by implementing mathematical theories. This part can be the most time-consuming.

#Project Timeline (5 weeks)
1. I will build the prototype of static robot with working distance sensor and stepper motor connected to the Arduino. I will write the code in the Arduino software that collects the distance from the ultrasonic sensor as the stepper motor moves and turn them into valuable numbers.
2. I will write the working code in Processing that draws the room out of collected numbers from the Arduino file. Also I will find the way of turning the processing sketch into autocad file.
3. I will add a servo motor with wheels to make the robot mobile and work on the codes in Arduino and Processing to adjust them to the robot’s movement.
4. I will test the robot in different spaces to find the mistakes and eliminate them in Arduino and Processing code. I will also search for the way of finding electricity, water, windows and doors.
5. I will add found additional sensors and adjust the code in Arduino and Processing to them to create the final measuring robot for interior designers.
